Korrine: I applied for probably well
over 80 jobs and had maybe six,
maybe seven interviews, some of which
were really positive experiences
and some of which were shocking
as to how people respond.
They kind of don't really know
how to react.
[music plays]
Korrine: I would apply to a job that
I was very qualified for,
go for an interview,
have a conversation, have that
interview, and then they'll be like,
‘Oh, we'll reach out.’
And then they never do.
That kind of just gave me
the answer right there.
You know, they just kind of
want to shut me out and that's it.
One woman in an interview
actually called me a hazard
because of my vision loss,
which is kind of...
I was sitting there like, did
she actually just say that?
Did I hear that right?
Did she said that, right?
And she just was like,
“well, basically, I just don't see that
this job would be safe for you.”
As customer service for a store?
[laughter]
Linda: I went on this interview
and I was sitting at a desk.
The one lady really liked me,
but the other lady,
she was annoyed.
I just got the impression that she didn't
want a blind-deaf person behind that desk.
I really did.
And even the coach with me
thought so.
And of course, I didn't get the job.
David: What's the goal of a hiring manager?
The goal of hiring manager is
to take that stack of 100 resumes
and pull the top six people out
so they can interview them
and then during the interview process,
find the person who really
is going to be best suited for that job.
Well, when you start talking,
any time there's that prefix ‘dis’
you know, that Latin,
which means the lack of.
All of a sudden the hiring managers,
what they're programed to do
is to not take the
person who lacks anything.
Chris: It's challenging, honestly,
for DeafBlind people
to begin their journey
in employment, to just get onto
to the first rung of the ladder.
Just getting that grip on the first
rung is a challenge.
And you might wonder,
why is that challenging?
Well, it's for a myriad reasons.
One is people's perspective
that DeafBlind people
can't work, simply can't work.
And that's not accurate.
[music plays]
Korrine: During one of the other interviews,
when we were discussing
different positions at the job,
they pretty much wanted to decide for me
what I could and could not do,
which was not their decision.
That's up to me.
I know what I'm capable of.
I know what I can, what I can't do.
And I'm very comfortable saying that.
I know my strengths, I know my weaknesses.
I know what I have to work on.
Now I'm a person with a
disability and I'm capable
of working a job and doing stuff
just like anybody else is.
I did a lot of training to get
to where I am with those skills
and it was very frustrating
because I didn't feel like
they were really listening.
Linda: We try so hard, you know, to learn
and to be able to do the job.
Just give us a chance.
If it doesn't work out, then it doesn't
work out, go home and cry your eyes out.
That's what bugs me.
You know, that really bugs me
that there are people out there
that won't give us a chance.
Shame on them.
You know, shame on them.
David: It comes down to having people
understand that with a
reasonable accommodation
with reasonably modifying
the way a job is done,
call it job crafting or job carving
or however you want to term it,
really just making some
adjustments to be able to use
the great skills that people
with disabilities bring to the table
that somebody without a disability
may not necessarily have.
Whether it's the intestinal fortitude
of being able to cross a busy
intersection blindfolded essentially,
or the problem solving that goes
into figuring out how to do things
that were made and
envisioned for sighted people,
as somebody who doesn't have that vision.
So I think those are all attributes that
once you can illuminate people to that,
once you can provide that education,
then I think they can appreciate that,
wait a minute, we actually
might have something here that
is valuable and that we can use,
whether it be in the employment
context or some other way.
Chris: Some DeafBlind people
aren't positive that they can do it.
They have that feeling that,
“well, maybe I can't.”
Who has engrained that
thought process into your head?
Who has planted
that seed that you're not able to?
And I think it's society as a whole
that have been telling us
as deaf people that we can't,
and then we internalize and live that
self-fulfilling prophecy of ‘I can't.’
And all of that is wrong.
Korrine: One piece of advice
I would give an employer
who hasn't had that experience
with a disabled individual
is probably, you know,
be open, listen to them.
Listen to what they have to say.
Hear them out.
Give them that chance.
Because everyone deserves that chance.
Everyone deserves an equal opportunity.
Don't make that assumption.
Don't assume somebody can or
can't do something because of a quote-unquote label.
And I don't like calling it that.
But that's what the world,
for the most part sees this as.
And there's so much stigma
and so many misconceptions
and so many assumptions
that people make that,
you know, you really need to break down
those barriers and be more open
to understanding.
David: I’d ask everybody to consider providing
access to opportunites, right?
It’s one thing to provide an opportunity.
Even more basic than that is
providing access to that opportunity.
That’s really all I think that
people with disabilities are asking for,
ultimately is, “Just give me an opportunity,
give me access to that opportunity.”
There’s so much talent in the 12% to 20%
of the population that are people with disabilites.
Let’s access that talent.
[music ends]